# Chess reportoire

Personal notes on my chess openings, going into hopefully reasonable middle
games. Trying to talk about best engine lines and mainline responses first.

# White Pieces

White opens with `1. e4`. Best by test.

## 1. e4 e5

White will play `2. Nf3`, developing a piece and attacking the pawn on `e5`.

### 2. Nf3 Nc6

Black moves his knight to `c6` to defend the pawn and develop a piece. White
plays `3. Bc4`, developing a piece and preparing to castle.

#### 3. Bc4 Bc5

The Italian opening. Black also moves his bishop out of the way creating a 
symmetrical position. White can proceed by castling short. `4. O-O`. 

Some rules going forward: if Black plays `d6` we should play `h3` to avoid the
bishop pinning the knight to the queen. We should try and kick away the bishop
on `c5`, and close its diagonal or exchange it. Pawn break usually happens on
the `d` file. If Black 

##### 4. O-O Nf6

Black develops his knight, making room to castle and also attacking the pawn on
e4. White defends with `5. d3`

###### 5. d3 d6

Black also defends its centre pawn, but perhaps more importantly unleashes the
bishop on `c8`, which would find a nice home on `g4`.

The engine recommendation here is to play `6. a4` or `6. c3`. The idea behind
`6. c3` is that you're threatening to play `b4` and `d4` at some point.

The idea behind `a4` is less obvious, but might allow you to put your
bishop on `b5` and get into some tactics winning the rook if Black misplays.
It also makes space for the bishop to retreat in case Black plays his knight to 
`a5`.

However, to keep things simple I would normally play `6. h3` in this position.
The best recommendation for black after that is a move I don't think I've ever 
seen in any of my games (`6. h3 Na5`)

##### 4. O-O d6

White doesn't want to allow the bishop to pin the knight to the queen at `g4`,
so just plays `h3`.

#### 3. Bc4 Nc6

Black develops his knight, which allows us to attack the pawn on `f7`, by
playing `4. Ng5`, which is called the fried liver attack for some reason.
Things get complicated fast so you need to be prepared when you play this line,
but it's effective especially at the lower levels.

##### 4. Ng5 d5 ; 5 exd5 Na5

Trying to kick away the bishop, but at the same time opening a diagonal to the king.
White plays `6. Bb5+`

###### 6. Bb5+ c6 7. dxc6 bxc6

Blocking the check twice in a row, and now we're at the point where engines
disagree.  White can play `8. Qf3` pinning the pawn to the rook, or White can
move its bishop back `8. Bd3`.

I prefer following with `8. Qf3`, because it's hard for Black to find the right
move if they're not familiar with this line. 

NB. Need to check this in stockfish >8

###### 8. Qf3 Be7

Getting ready to castle. 

###### 8. Qf3 cxb5

Saccing the exchange, but maybe not intended. White responds with `9. Qxa8`

###### 8. Qf3 Rb8

Never seen this move, but `9. Be2` seems like a fair response.



##### 4. Ng5 d5 ; 5 exd5 Nxd5

This move you'll see a lot at the lower levels. White can respond by taking the
pawn on `f7` anyway: `6. Nxf7`.

### 2. Nf3 Nf6

The Petrov or Russian defense.

### 2. Nf3 d6

The Philidor. White plays similar lines to the Italian, first developing with
`3. Bc4`.

#### 3. Bc4 a6

A slow move by Black, allowing White to seize the centre with `4. d4`. 

NB. Or we could just castle?

##### 4. d4 exd4


## 1. e4 c5

The Sicilian defense.

### 2. d4

The Smith-Morra gambit.

### 2. Nc3

Another anti-Sicilian.

### 2. Nf3

Alright, let's play a Sicilian then.

## 1. e4 e6

It's the French

## 1. e4 c6

It's the Caro Kann.

## 1. e4 g6

It's some modern stuff.

## 1. e4 Nf6

## 1. e4 Nc6

# Black Pieces

## 1. e4
